Euro Calculator                          4tH version 3.3a, release '99-04-03


1. Disclaimer
-------------
THIS PROGRAM IS PROVIDED "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EITHER IMPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND
PERFORMANCE OF THIS PROGRAM IS WITH YOU. THE AUTHOR DOES NOT
WARRANT THAT OPERATION OF THIS PROGRAM WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR
ERROR FREE. IN NO EVENT WILL THE DISTRIBUTOR OR AUTHOR OF THIS
PROGRAM BE LIABLE FOR ANY DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY LOST PROFITS,
LOST SAVINGS OR ANY OTHER INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THIS PROGRAM, EVEN IF
THE AUTHOR HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES,
OR FOR ANY OTHER CLAIM BY ANY OTHER PARTY. THE AUTHOR EXPLICITLY
STATES THAT THE RESULTS OF THIS PROGRAM MAY NOT BE ACCURATE AND
DISCOURAGES ITS USE IN ENVIRONMENTS WHERE CONFORMITY WITH COUNCIL
DIRECTIVE CE 1103/97 IS REQUIRED!


2. Technical architecture
-------------------------
This program is written in 4tH, which is based on the Forth
programming language. 4tH doesn't support floating point
arithmetic, so this Euro calculator uses 32 bit integer
arithmetic, which has a few drawbacks. In some cases, significant
digits are lost, so the result is smaller than expected. This is
called overflow. In other cases the result is not completely
accurate. Therefore, we strongly advise you *NOT* to use this
calculator for commercial purposes.

In order to minimize these effects this program uses a technology
called proportional scaling. This ensures that you can use this
calculator for calculations in the range of -2500 Euro and 2500
Euro independent of the currency and that the accuracy stays
within a percent of a percent.


3. Using the calculator
-----------------------
The calculator is command driven and behaves like a Hewlett-
Packard calculator. That means that the operator comes after the
operands instead of between them. The denomination comes after
the amount. The amount is entered in 1/100 units, e.g. this will
put DM 100 on the calculator stack:

      10000 DEM

The denominations currently supported are: NLG, BEF, DEM, ITL,
PTE, FIM, IEP, FRF, ESP, ATS, LUF and EUR. In order to display
the top of the calculator stack, just put a period in front of
the denomination, e.g. to convert DM 100 to Euro you have to
enter:

      10000 DEM .EUR

The Euro calculator supports these operators: +, -, * and /. E.g.
to add DM 100 to NLG 100 and display the result in ITL you have
to enter:

      10000 DEM 10000 NLG + .ITL

Or if you have to pay NLG 29.95 and only have NLG 25.00 plus a
few DEMs in your pocket, this will tell you how much DEM is left
to pay:

      2995 NLG 2500 NLG - .DEM

If you make an error, the calculator will issue an error message,
otherwise it will print "OK" on the screen. If you need any help,
just enter:

      help

The program will then issue a few lines, which may give you a few
hints.


4. Pedigree
-----------
This program was created with the 4tH toolkit. If you need more
information on the 4tH toolkit, please visit our website:

      http://visitweb.com/hansoft

You can download the toolkit free of charge, along with
additional programs and documentation. Please note the "TERMS AND
CONDITIONS", which apply to the 4tH toolkit and are included in
the package.

                         --- DOCUMENT ENDS HERE ---

                         Copyright 1999 J.L. Bezemer
